# Sources page for 500

This page houses additional sources (articles, etc.) for Dr. Love's PQHS / CRSP 500 course.

In addition to these, you'll find a PDF version of Paul R. Rosenbaum's book *Observation and Experiment* from 2017 on our Shared Drive.

Many additional sources will be presented and referenced in class, and those are gathered below, along with other references that I've used in the past. I expect you will read some, but not all of these items, depending on what is most useful to you. The PDF files [are available here](articles). Some are password-protected. The password will be revealed at the first class.

- Abramson John, Chapter 2 "[Spinning the Evidence](articles/Abramson-OverdosedAmerica-chapter2.pdf)" from *Overdosed America*
- Ahmed Ali et al. (including Love TE) 2006 [Outcomes in ambulatory chronic systolic and diastolic heart failure](articles/Ahmed%20et%20al%202006%20Am%20Heart%20J.pdf). *American Heart Journal*
- Ahmed Ali et al. (including Love TE) 2006 [Effects of Digoxin on Morbidity and Mortality in Diastolic Heart Failure: The Ancillary Digitalis Investigation Group Trial](articles/Ahmed%20et%20al%202006%20Circulation.pdf) *Circulation*
- Ahmed Ali et al. (including Love TE) 2012 [Outcomes in younger and older adults with chronic advanced systolic heart failure: A propensity-matched study](articles/Ahmed%20et%20al%202012%20Int%20J%20Card.pdf) *International Journal of Cardiology*
- Austin Peter C and Mamdani Muhammad M 2006 [A comparison of propensity score methods: A case study estimating the effectiveness of post-AMI statin use](articles/Austin%20and%20Mamdani%202006%20case%20study.pdf) *Statistics in Medicine*
- Austin Peter C 2014 [A comparison of 12 algorithms for matching on the propensity score](articles/Austin%202014%20Comparing%2012%20PS%20matching%20algorithms.pdf) *Statistics in Medicine* 33, 1057-69.
- Benson Kjell and Hartz Arthur J 2000 [A comparison of observational studies and randomized controlled trials](articles/Benson%20and%20Hartz%202000%20OS%20vs%20RCTs.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine*
- Bingenheimer Jeffrey B et al. 2005 [Firearm violence exposure and serious violent behavior](articles/Bingenheimer%202005%20PS%20stratified%20longitudinal%20study.pdf) *Science*
    - Reaction piece by Constance Holden [Controversal Study Suggests Seeing Gun Violence Promotes it](articles/Bingenheimer%20reaction%20in%20Science%20by%20Holden%202005.pdf) *Science*
- Bradford Hill, Sir Austin 1965 [The Environment and Disease: Association or Causation?](articles/Bradford%20Hill%201965.pdf) *Proceedings of the Royal Society of Medicine*
- Chipman Hugh A et al. 2010 [BART: Bayesian Adaptive Regression Trees](articles/Chipman%20George%20and%20McCulloch%202010%20Annals%20Applied%20Stat%20BART.pdf) *Annals of Applied Statistics*
- Concato John et al. 2000 [Randomized, Controlled Trials, Observational Studies and the Hierarchy of Research Designs](articles/Concato%20Shah%20and%20Horwitz%202000%20OS%20vs%20RCTs%20and%20Hierarchy%20of%20Research%20Design.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine*
- Connors Alfred F et al. 1996 [The Effectiveness of Right Heart Catheterization in the Initial Care of Critically Ill Patients](articles/Connors%20et%20al%201996%20JAMA%20The%20Right%20Heart%20Catheterization%20Study.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- D'Agostino Ralph B Jr. 1998 [Tutorial in Biostatistics: Propensity Score Methods for Bias Reduction in the Comparison of a Treatment to a Non-Randomized Control Group](articles/D'Agostino%201998%20SIM%20Tutorial%20on%20Propensity%20Scores.pdf) *Statistics in Medicine*
- Elbadawi A et al. 2021 [Contemporary Revascularization Strategies and Outcomes Among Patients With Diabetes With Critical Limb Ischemia: Insights from the National Inpatient Sample](articles/Elbadawi%202021.pdf), with [Supplement](articles/Elbadawi%202021_supplement.pdf) *J Am Coll Cardiol Intv* 14: 664-74.
- Galvagno Samuel M et al. 2012 [Association Between Helicopter vs. Ground Emergency Medical Services and Survival for Adults with Major Trauma](articles/Galvagno%20et%20al%202012%20JAMA.pdf) *Journal of the Americal Medical Association*
- Gignoux Etienne et al. 2016 [Effect of Artesunate-Amodiaquine on Mortality related to Ebola Virus Disease](articles/Gignoux%20et%20al%202016%20NEJM.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine*
- Gum Patricia A et al. 2001 [Aspirin Use and All-Cause Mortality among Patients being Evaluated for Known or Suspected Coronary Artery Disease](articles/Gum%202001%20JAMA%20Aspirin%20Use%20Propensity%20Analysis.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- Hansen Ben B 2004 [Full Matching in an Observational Study of Coaching for the SAT](articles/Hansen%202004%20JASA%20Full%20Matching%20in%20SAT%20Coaching.pdf) *Journal of the American Statistical Association*
- Haukoos Jason S and Lewis Roger J 2015 [The Propensity Score (JAMA Guide to Statistics and Methods)](articles/Haukoos%20and%20Lewis%20JAMA%202015%20Guide%20to%20Statistics%20and%20Methods%20-%20The%20Propensity%20Score.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- Hill Jennifer and Su Yu-Sung 2013 [Assessing Lack of Common Support in Causal Inference using Bayesian Nonparametrics: Implications for Evaluating the Effect of Breastfeeding on Children's Cognitive Outcomes](articles/Hill%20and%20Su%202013%20Assessing%20Lack%20of%20Common%20Support%20in%20Causal%20Inference%20using%20Bayesian%20Nonparametrics.pdf) *Annals of Applied Statistics*
- Hirano Keisuke and Imbens Guido W 2001 [Estimation of Causal Effects using Propensity Score Weighting: An Application to Data on Right Heart Catheterization](articles/Hirano%20and%20Imbens%202001%20Weighting%20in%20RHC.pdf) *Health Services & Outcomes Research Methodology*
- Hirono Keisuke and Imbens Guido W 2004 [The Propensity Score with Continuous Treatments](articles/Hirano%20and%20Imbens%202004%20Propensity%20Score%20Generalized%20to%20the%20Case%20of%20Continuous%20Treatments.pdf) draft of a chapter for *Missing Data and Bayesian Methods in Practice*
- Hofler Michael 2005 [The Bradford Hill considerations on causalilty; A Counterfactual perspective](articles/Hofler%202005%20The%20Bradford%20Hill%20considerations%20on%20causality%20a%20counterfactual%20perspective.pdf) *Emerging Themes in Epidemiology*
- Huybrechts Krista F et al. 2014 [Antidepressant Use in Pregnancy and the Risk of Cardiac Defects](articles/Huybrechts%20et%20al%202014%20NEJM%20main%20manuscript.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine*
    - Also available: [Supplementary Materials for Huybrechts et al 2014](articles/Huybrechts%20et%20al%202014%20NEJM%20supplemental%20content.pdf)
- Huybrechts Krista F et al. 2015 [Antidepressant Use Late in Pregnancy and Risk of Persistent Pulmonary Hypertension of the Newborn](articles/Huybrechts%20et%20al%202015%20JAMA.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- Imai Kosuke and van Dyk David A 2004 [Causal Inference with Generalized Treatment Regimes: Generalizing the Propensity Score](articles/Imai%20and%20van%20Dyk%202004%20JASA%20Causal%20Inference%20with%20General%20Treatment%20Regimes%20-%20Generalizing%20the%20PS.pdf) *Journal of the American Statistical Association*
- Kubo Yusuke et al. 2020 [Effects of preoperative low-intensity training with slow movement on early quadriceps weakness after total knee arthroplasty in patients with knee osteoarthritis: a retrospective propensity score-matched study](articles/Kubo_2020_extra.pdf) *BMC Sports Science, Medicine and Rehabilitation*
- Landrum Mary Beth and Ayanian John Z 2001 [Causal Effect of Ambulatory Specialty Care on Mortality Following Myocardial Infarction: A Comparison of Propensity Score and Instrumental Variable Analyses](articles/Landrum%20and%20Ayanian%202001%20Propensity%20Scores%20and%20Instrumental%20Variables.pdf) *Health Services & Outcomes Research Methodology*
- Lehman Darrin R et al. 1987 [Long-Term Effects of Losing a Spouse or Child in a Motor Vehicle Crash](articles/Lehman%20Wortman%20Williams%201987%20Loss%20of%20a%20Spouse%20or%20Child.pdf) *Journal of Personality and Social Psychology*
- Lehr Carli J et al. 2019 [The impact of change in definition of increased-risk donors on survival after lung transplant](articles/Lehr_2019_extra.pdf) *J Thorac Cardiovac Surg*
- Lu Bo et al. 2001 [Matching with doses in an observational study of a media campaign against drug abuse](articles/Lu%20et%20al%202001%20JASA%20Matching%20with%20doses.pdf) *Journal of the American Statistical Association*
- Lucy D'Agostino McGowan wrote [this February 2017 blog post](https://www.kdnuggets.com/2017/02/hill-data-scientist-xkcd-story.html) "[Causation or Correlation: Explaining HIll Criteria using `xkcd`](https://www.kdnuggets.com/2017/02/hill-data-scientist-xkcd-story.html)." It was inspired by Roger Peng and Hilary Parker's [Not So Standard Deviations podcast, Episode 28](http://nssdeviations.com/episode-28-writing-is-a-lot-harder-than-just-talking).
- MRFIT (Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial) Research Group 1982 [Multiple Risk Factor Intervention Trial: Risk Factor Changes and Mortality Results](articles/MRFIT%201982.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- Normand Sharon-Lise T et al. 2001 [Validating recommendations for coronary angiography following acute myocardial infarction in the elderly: A matched analysis using propensity scores](articles/Normand%20et%20al%202001%20Propensity%20Score%20Matching%20Analysis%20on%20Acute%20MI%20in%20Elderly%20Patients.pdf) *Health Services & Outcomes Research Methodology*
- Pasternak Njorn et al 2012 [Risk of Adverse Fetal Outcomes Following Administration of a Pandemic Influenza A (H1N1) Vaccine During Pregnancy](articles/Pasternak%20et%20al%202012%20JAMA.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- Patel Kanan et al (including Love TE) 2014 [Calcium Channel Blockers and Outcomes in Older Patients with Heart Failure and Preserved Ejection Fraction](articles/Patel%20et%20al%202014%20Circ%20Heart%20Failure.pdf) *Circulation: Heart Failure*
- Posner Micheal A. et al 2001 [Comparing Standard Regression, Propensity Score Matching and Instrumental Variables Methods for Determining the Influence of Mammography on Stage of Diagnosis](articles/Posner%20et%20al%202001%20Comparing%20Methods%20in%20a%20Mammography%20Study.pdf) *Health Services & Outcomes Research Methodology*
- ProCESS Investigators 2014 [A Randomized Trial of Protocol-Based Care for Early Septic Shock](articles/Process_trial_2014.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine* 370(18): 1683-1693.
- Ridgeway Greg et al. 2015 [Toolkit for Weighting and Analysis of Nonequivalent Groups: A tutorial for the `twang` package](articles/Ridgeway%20G%20et%20al%202015%20TWANG%20Tutorial%20in%20R.pdf) 
- Rosenbaum Paul E 2010 [Design of Observational Studies](articles/Rosenbaum%20PR%202010%20Design%20of%20Observational%20Studies.pdf)
- Rubin Donald B 2001 [Using Propensity Scores to help Design Observational Studies: Application to the Tobacco Litigation](articles/Rubin%202001%20Tobacco%20Litigation%20article.pdf) *Health Services & Outcomes Research Methodology*
- Rubin Donald B 2004 [On principles for modeling propensity scores in medical research](articles/Rubin%202004%20editorial%20Pharmacoepidemiology%20and%20Drug%20Safety%20on%20Propensity%20Score%20Principles.pdf) *Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety*
- Sacco Ralph L. et al 2001 [High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol and Ischemic Stroke in the Elderly: The Northern Manhattan Stroke Study](articles/Sacco%20et%20al%202001%20JAMA%20on%20statins%20and%20the%20Northern%20Manhattan%20Stroke%20Study.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- Schaffer Justin M. et al 2015 [Single- vs. Double-Lung Transplantation in Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Since the Implementation of Lung Allocation Based on Medical Need](articles/Schaffer%20et%20al%202015%20JAMA%20main%20manuscript.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
    - Also available: [Supplementary Materials for Schaffer et al 2015](articles/Schaffer%20et%20al%202015%20JAMA%20supplemental%20content.pdf)
- Schermerhorn Marc L. et al 2015 [Long-Term Outcomes of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm in the Medicare Population](articles/Schermerhorn%20et%20al%202015%20main%20manuscript.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine*
    - Also available: [Supplementary Materials for Schermerhorn et al 2015](articles/Schermerhorn%20et%20al%202015%20supplemental%20content.pdf)
- Shirani Afsaneh et al 2012 [Association Between Use of Interferon Beta and Progression of Disability in Patients with Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis](articles/Shirani%20et%20al%202012%20JAMA.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- Smith Gordon C S and Pell Jill P 2003 [Parachute use to prevent death and major trauma related to gravitational challenge: Systematic review of randomized controlled trials](articles/Smith%20and%20Pell%202003%20BMJ%20Parachutes.pdf) *The BMJ*
- STROBE Guidelines are available at <https://www.strobe-statement.org/>.
- Stuart Elizabeth A. 2010 [Matching Methods for Causal Inference: A Review and a Look Forward](articles/Stuart%202010%20Stat%20Science%20Matching%20Methods%20for%20Causal%20Inference.pdf) *Statistical Science*
- Stuart et al. 2013 [Estimating Causal Effects in Observational Studies Using Electronic Health Data: Challenges and some) Solutions](articles/Stuart%20et%20al%202013%20eGEMS%20Estimating%20Causal%20Effects%20in%20Observational%20Studies%20with%20EHR%20data.pdf) *eGEMS* (*Generating Evidence & Methods to improve patient outcomes*)
- Stukel Therese A. et al. 2007 [Analysis of Observational Studies in the Presence of Treatment Selection Bias: Effects of Invasive Cardiac Management on AMI Survival Using Propensity Score and Instrumental Variable Methods](articles/Stukel%20et%20al%202007%20JAMA.pdf) *Journal of the American Medical Association*
- Svanstrom Henrik et al. 2013 [Use of Azithromycin and Death from Cardiovascular Cases](articles/Svanstrom%20et%20al%202013%20main%20manuscript.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine*
    - Also available: [Supplementary Materials for Svanstrom et al 2013](articles/Svanstrom%20et%20al%202013%20supplemental%20content.pdf)
- Tanenbaum Joseph E et al. 2017 [Propensity Matched Analysis of Outcomes and Hospital Charges for Anterior versus Posterior Cervical Fusion for Cervical Spondylotic Myelopathy](articles/Tanenbaum_2017_extra.pdf) *Clin Spine Surgery*
- Taramasso M et al. 2019 [Transcatheter versus Medical Treatment of Patients with Symptomatic Severe Tricuspid Regurgitation](articles/Taramasso%202019.pdf)
    - Also available: follow up small single-arm study by Lurz et al. 2021 [Transcatheter Edge-to-Edge Repair for Treatment of Tricuspid Regurgitation](articles/Lurz%202021%20follow%20up%20to%20Taramasso%202019.pdf)
- Weintraub William S. et al. 2012 [Comparative Effectiveness of Revascularization Strategies](articles/Weintraub%20et%20al%202012%20NEJM%20CE%20of%20Revascularization%20Strategies%20main%20manuscript.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine*
    - Also available: [Supplementary Materials for Weintraub et al 2012](articles/Weintraub%20et%20al%202012%20NEJM-CE%20of%20Revascularization%20Strategies%20supplemental%20content.pdf)
- Weitzen Sherry et al. 2004 [Principles for modeling propensity scores in medical research: A systematic literature review](articles/Weitzen%20et%20al%202004%20Systematic%20Literature%20Review%20of%20Propensity%20Score%20Usage.pdf) *Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety*
- Weitzen Sherry et al. 2005 [Weaknesses of goodness-of-fit tests for evaluating propensity score models: the case of the omitted confounder](articles/Weitzen%20et%20al%202005%20Why%20goodness%20of%20fit%20tests%20aren't%20appropriate%20for%20evaluating%20propensity%20score%20models.pdf) *Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety*
- White Harvey D et al. 2000 [Pravastatin therapy and the risk of stroke](articles/White%20et%20al%202000%20NEJM%20on%20Statins.pdf) *New England Journal of Medicine*
- Whitehouse Mark 2007 [Is an Economist Qualified to Solve Puzzle of Autism?](articles/Whitehouse%202007%20WSJ%20Economics%20and%20Autism.pdf) *Wall Street Journal*

